Hi there.
This is the model room.
In the last lecture, we learn that every enum is essentially a class which extends the class linked
enum.
In this lecture, we will learn about this enum class and we will also do a demo where we will invoke
some of its methods.
You may recall the slide from the previous lecture.
We have the book genre and upon completion it gets translated to a regular class which extends Java
language.
We also discuss the two static methods, values and value of which are inserted by the compiler to learn
about enum class and its methods.
Let's actually head over to the Java Dock of enum class.
Here we are in the API dog of the enum class.
So enum class is here in the Java Lang package and it implements two interfaces compatible and realizable.
So let's just.
Scroll down.
And here is the constructor in a constructor which takes in, which takes a name and ordinal.
And here are some of these methods.
And we know that these methods can be invoked on an enum constant in constants as part of enum type.
And on each enum constant, we can invoke these methods.
And it scroll down so since it implements compatible so we it also overwrites the compared to method.
So this will be useful for comparing one enum constant with another enum constant.
So we will we will look at that in our demo two.
And first, let's click on this method called Ordinal.
So it's ordinal is a final method, which means that it should not be overridden in a subclass, and
subclass would be an enum type itself.
So what that means is enum type can also have methods, it can have behavior and it can have state.
And that is something we will look at in one of the follow up lessons.
But this particular method should not be overridden.
And hence it is a final method.
And it says it returns the ordinal of this enumeration constant.
So this particular method, as we know, will be invoked on an enum constant.
So it would return the ordinal of this enum constant, which is nothing but the position in its enum
declaration, where the initial constant is assigned an ordinal of zero.
So the first declared enum constant will have an ordinal of zero.
So it is zero based.
And it says most programmers will have no use for this method.
So you may never use this.
It is designed for use for use by sophisticated enum based data structures such as enum set and in a
map.
So these are two data structures that are enum based.
We may cover these data sectors or we may not.
So that is something I will decide on.
But there are these two data structures.
And normally you would not invoke this method.
So that's the ordinal method.
Then there is the name method.
Let's click on that.
Name method is also final and it returns the name of this enum constant.
And it is exactly as declared in its enum declaration.
If it is harder, it will be just harder.
So that would be the name of the name of the enum Constant.
And it also says most programmers should use the two string method in preference to this, as the two
string method may return a more user friendly name.
So let's look at what two string is.
Here it is two string method.
So we know that object class has the two string method.
So it is being overridden here.
So it says returns the name of this enum constant as contained in the declaration.
So by default, if you look at the source code, it would this method actually invokes the name method,
but then you might want to display a more customized name for the enum constant, in which case you
can override it and you can return that.
You can return the customized name.
So this method may be overridden, though it typically isn't necessary or desirable.
So typically you would just access to string method, in which case it just accesses the name method
and you get the name of the constant or you can directly access the name method to.
But if you have to if you want to have the name in a more customized way, then you can probably override
this method and you can return that customized name.
So it says an enum type should override this method when a more programmer friendly string string exists.
So that's the two string method.
Then there is the get declaring class.
So this since this is being invoked on an enum constant and the declaring class would be the enum type
itself, the enum type inside which the in a constant is declared.
So it would return that and we will also look at that in the demo.
And other than that, there is this value of method.
So value of method is basically taking enum type.
So the class object corresponding to enum type and the enum constants name as a string and it would
return the enum constant itself.
And so that's what this method says.
It returns the enum constant of the specified enum type.
So when it says specified it means that it would be this enum type with the specified name and the name
would be the name of the constant.
Here it is, the name of the constant return.
So the name must match exactly an identifier used to declare an enum constant in this in this type.
Now here it is suggested that instead of this you can actually use the static method value of which
is inside the enum type.
We looked at the value of method and the values method.
We discussed them.
So it says that we can instead invoke that method.
So value of will take the name of the enum constant and it would return the enum constant.
And since it's a static method, you can invoke it directly on the enum type itself and values method.
We already know it returns an array of the enum constants and we will also look at that in our demo.
So that's it.
And there are a bunch of methods that are overridden here, like the equals method.
Then there is the hashCode method and the two string method and the clone method.
So let's look at the clone method.
It says it throws clone, not supported exception.
And this is because this is an enum constant and enum constant is a singleton.
So it is declared a static final and each enum constant is a singleton and whenever the enum is access
for the very first time.
So those enum constants will also be initialized and they have a singleton status and we do not want
a clone of it.
So that's why it throws this exception if this particular method is invoked clone as a method and object
class.
So this guarantees that enum are never cloned, which is necessary, which is necessary to preserve
their singleton status.
That's the clone method.
And the other methods are also there, like the equals method, which overrides the equals PN in the
object class, and there is the hashCode method and all of these methods.
So there if you click on hashCode, it would just be a final method, which means that it is preventing
the subtype to override this method, and it simply accesses the hashCode version in the object class.
So it would say super dot hashCode, but it does not want this particular method to be overridden in
a subclass and hence it is explicitly declared as final.
It is overriding the hash code in the object class, but it doesn't want its subtypes to override it
and hence it is declared as final.
So that's about it.
Let's actually head over to our editor and let's invoke some of these methods.
Okay.
Here we are in the demo project.
And within this project a new package has been created.
It's called Semantic Squared.
And within this package let's create our first enum and let's just create the genre enum.
So under new we have this option called enum so we can just click this or we can also click on class,
which would create a class, but then we would have to replace the keyword class with the keyword enum.
But since we have this option enum, so let's just click on this.
And.
Let's see a book.
Andre.
Okay.
So it is Public Enemy book genre and it is saved as book genre or Java.
So that's the enum type.
So let's go ahead and add our enum constants and let's add those two enum constants, biography and
horror.
And that should do.
Coma.
Carter.
So this would be the most basic enum.
But for this demo, we wanted to test the methods in Enum.
Right.
And those methods will be invoked on these enum constants.
And in order to do that, we can add a main method.
So an enum can have a main method.
So enum can have methods, so it can have static methods and it can also have instance methods.
And we will look at that later.
But for now, let's add a main method.
So if you want to add anything else other than the constants, then we need to end these constants with
an semicolon.
But if there is nothing else, if the enum has only the constants, then we don't need this.
Let's do this.
And let me go ahead and paste some code here.
So this is the code.
So this is the main method.
The regular main method, like in the regular class.
And here we are iterating.
So we have this first statement and here we are saying book genre.
Book genre is this type.
And we are invoking the values method and the values method we know returns an array of these two constants.
Right.
And the type would be book genre.
So this is what we have and we are invoking the different methods in the in the enum class on each of
the constants in the first iteration, it would, it would be biography and in the second iteration
it would be harder.
And here we are saying the name and this is a print statement.
So it would invoke the two string method.
So it would invoke the two string method in the enum class.
And here we are invoking name and here we are invoking ordinal and the get declaring class.
So which would be book genre?
And we are comparing the current constant with book genre horror.
And here is an equals comparison.
So that's all it is.
And let me just go ahead and run this.
Here we are both the constants.
So the first one is biography and we get that by invoking the two string method.
Then when we invoke the name, it was once again biography because the two string method name name is
actually biography.
And the two string method also internally uses the name method unless we overwrite it within this particular
enum type so we can override the E and the two string method in the in the enum class by writing a method
here called two string somewhere here or here.
So and the ordinal value is zero during the first iteration because biography has a ordinal zero and
the get declaring class is basically book.
John Ray So the fully qualified name is displayed and compared to method, we are doing a comparison
between biography and horror.
So a minus one is returned by the compared to method.
We know that.
And when it does an equals it would be false.
And during the second iteration it's just the same thing.
Horror.
Horror for name ordinal would be one and the declaring class would be the same.
Declaring class and the compared to method would return a zero.
Because we are comparing horror with horror itself and the equals method would return a true.
So those are the methods and that's about it.
For this demo.
So that's about it.
And this particular code is available in the resources section.
And thank you.